contracts are the connecting point for everything billable and costs associated with supporting a client as well as the gateway for providing support. it is our view that any service provided requires a contract. Even if it is a $0 break/fix contract, it will still set the legal and professional terms of the services rendered and prepaid time. we should still allow for non-technical communications (sales/non-technical customer service issues, etc...) to happen but service delivery is contract-centric. An integration with an e-signature platform is probably a good idea here but that can be deferred.

Wherever possible, a clients billing and invoice generation should be automated and accurate based on quantities in the PSA. As such, we need to be able to attach people, assets, and licenses used. Then line items in the recurring invoices can be set to "# of contract devices" or "# of contract users" or "# of licenses of this type" (with a way to choose the license type to use). At invoice generation time PSA will read those quantities and use them to generate the invoice with Quantities matching actual usage.

Contract assignments can be manual with a way to select specific assets/people/licenses or more commonly, dynamic, with rule-based automatic contract assignment. If all assets for a customer come from Ninja sync and only managed systems have Ninja on them then this would be the appropriate choice. We can expand it later to allow for more granular contract assignment.

we will need to be able to create and manage SKUs. (Halo calls these "items"). They will contain the price, whether the item is taxable, its cost, as well as a name and description. (we will likely add more fields later) these items should sync with QBO. In our case, Halo has already synced our items so the QBO integration should be enhanced so that it can sync them to PSA.

Software licenses can be pulled from various integrations or entered manually. Like assets and people, software licenses are expected to be attached to a client and available to assign to contracts (manually or automatically as with assets and users). Software licenses types are set at the tenant level with the ability to set a sku for each one. This allows for cost calculation. License imports and license type mappings can be managed in their source integrations. Example: Mesh API returns # of licenses used. Mesh Unified license type is assigned to "Mesh: Unified" SKU with a cost of $2 per license. The integration will keep that license count up to date. MSP can see the number of Mesh licenses consumed by a particular client from that client's page in PSA. MSP can then also attach (manually or by dynamic rule) some or all of those licenses to the client's contract (usually all). Then MSP can create a recurring invoice with their per-user MSP SKU (Price: $50) but use the quantity from the Mesh Unified license type assigned to the contract for that line item's quantity. (Mesh is mailbox based so is a good way to count "users with a mailbox" , which is a criteria some MSPs use to determine a billable user. M365/CIPP integration pulling in M365 licenses would also work the same way.

This should allow MSPs to track costs per license but still bill per computer, per client, ala carte, or any combination of the three.

Once all this is in place, MSPs can build contracts that accurately generate invoices and track costs/profitability per contract, client, and for the whole business.